agent-sandbox/README.md, before:

# agent-sandbox

Secure Podman container for running coding agents (Claude Code, OpenAI Codex)
with rootless isolation on Linux.

## Overview

- **Rootless Podman containers** — no daemon, no root, user-namespace isolation
- **Persistent agent state** — config and conversation history survive across
  sessions
- **Minimal attack surface** — capabilities dropped, `no-new-privileges` enforced
- **Network isolation** — full network disable via `--no-network`
- **Multi-agent support** — run Claude Code, OpenAI Codex, or a plain shell

For multi-client isolation, create separate Linux users and run the script as
each user — each gets their own home directory and container state automatically.

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Ubuntu 24.04+ (or any Linux with Podman 4.9+)
- [Podman](https://podman.io/getting-started/installation) 4.9+ (rootless mode)
- An Anthropic API key **or** an existing Claude Code OAuth login

### Build the image

```bash
podman build -t agent-sandbox agent-sandbox/
```

### Run an agent

```bash
# Claude Code with an API key
export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY="sk-ant-..."
./agent-sandbox/run-agent.sh --agent claude ./projects/webapp

# Claude Code with OAuth (share your host login)
./agent-sandbox/run-agent.sh --claude-config ~/.claude ./projects/webapp

# OpenAI Codex
export OPENAI_API_KEY="sk-..."
./agent-sandbox/run-agent.sh --agent codex ./projects/api

# Just a shell for exploration
./agent-sandbox/run-agent.sh --agent shell
```

### Resume a session

```bash
./agent-sandbox/run-agent.sh --resume
```

## Authentication

Claude Code supports two authentication modes inside the container.

### Option 1: API Key

Set `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` in your environment before launching. The key is
passed into the container automatically:

```bash
export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY="sk-ant-..."
./agent-sandbox/run-agent.sh ./project
```

### Option 2: OAuth Login (no API key)

If you have logged into Claude Code on your host machine (`claude login`),
you can share that session with the container using `--claude-config`:

```bash
./agent-sandbox/run-agent.sh --claude-config ~/.claude ./project
```

This bind-mounts your host `~/.claude` directory (which contains
`.credentials.json` and related files) into the container. The host's
`~/.claude.json` is also mounted automatically if present (required for
OAuth session state).

**Auto-detection:** If neither `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` nor `--claude-config`
is set, and `~/.claude/.credentials.json` exists on the host, the script
automatically mounts `~/.claude` **read-only** so your OAuth tokens are
available without any extra flags.

### GitHub CLI & Git Credentials

The script auto-detects and mounts GitHub credentials so that `gh` and
`git` work inside the container without extra configuration.

**Auto-mounted (read-only) when present on the host:**

| Host path | Container path | Purpose |
|-----------|---------------|---------|
| `~/.config/gh/` | `/home/agent/.config/gh/` | `gh` CLI auth tokens (`hosts.yml`) |
| `~/.gitconfig` | `/home/agent/.gitconfig` | Git identity and credential helpers |

**Environment variables (passed through if set):**

- `GH_TOKEN` — GitHub personal access token (used by `gh` CLI)
- `GITHUB_TOKEN` — Alternative GitHub token variable

If your `.gitconfig` uses `gh` as a credential helper
(`credential.helper = !gh auth git-credential`), git operations against
GitHub will authenticate automatically through the mounted `gh` config.

## Persistent Data

Agent state is stored under `~/.local/share/agent-sandbox/`:

```
~/.local/share/agent-sandbox/
├── claude/      # Claude Code config and conversation history
├── config/      # Agent configuration
└── history/     # Shell and command history
```

Only the designated project directory is mounted read-write in the container.

## Security Features

### Container isolation

| Layer | Protection |
|-------|-----------|
| User namespaces | Host UID/GID mapped to container's `agent` user (1000:1000) |
| Capability drop | `--cap-drop=ALL` with minimal re-adds |
| No new privileges | Prevents privilege escalation inside the container |
| Bind mounts | Only project dir (rw) and agent state (rw) are mounted |
| SELinux labels | `:Z` relabeling for proper MAC enforcement |

### Network isolation

Disable networking entirely with `--no-network`:

```bash
./agent-sandbox/run-agent.sh --no-network ./project
```

This passes `--network=none` to Podman, completely preventing the container
from making any network connections.

## run-agent.sh Reference

```
Usage: run-agent.sh [OPTIONS] [project-dir]

Options:
  --agent <name>         Agent to run: claude (default), codex, or shell
  --claude-config <dir>  Mount a Claude config directory into the container
                         (use to share OAuth login from the host)
  --image <image>        Container image (default: agent-sandbox:latest)
  --resume               Reattach to an existing container
  --no-network           Disable all container networking
  --mount <host:cont>    Additional bind mount (read-only)
  --mount-rw <host:cont> Additional bind mount (read-write)
  --podman-arg <arg>     Pass additional argument to podman run
  --help                 Show this help message

Environment variables:
  AGENT_SANDBOX_DATA     Base dir for persistent agent state
                         (default: ~/.local/share/agent-sandbox)
  ANTHROPIC_API_KEY      API key for Claude Code
  OPENAI_API_KEY         API key for OpenAI Codex
  GH_TOKEN               GitHub personal access token (gh CLI)
  GITHUB_TOKEN           GitHub token (alternative to GH_TOKEN)
```

## Troubleshooting

### Claude Code freezes after trusting the folder

The most common cause is a **git credential helper that blocks on input**.
The container bind-mounts your host `~/.gitconfig`, which may reference a
credential helper (e.g. `gh auth git-credential` or a keyring-based helper).
During initialization Claude Code runs git commands to inspect the project;
if any of those trigger the credential helper and it tries to prompt for
input, it hangs because the helper's stdin is a pipe with no reader.

The script already sets `GIT_TERMINAL_PROMPT=0` and `GH_PROMPT_DISABLED=1`
to force immediate failure instead of blocking.  If you still see a freeze:

1. **Debug interactively** — launch a shell and test git:

   ```bash
   ./agent-sandbox/run-agent.sh --agent shell ./project
   # inside the container:
   git status            # should work instantly
   git ls-remote origin  # may hang if DNS or credentials are broken
   ```

2. **DNS issues** — Ubuntu 24.04 uses `systemd-resolved` on `127.0.0.53`,
   which the container's network namespace cannot reach directly.  Podman
   normally rewrites `/etc/resolv.conf` for the container, but if DNS is
   broken you can force a public resolver:

   ```bash
   ./agent-sandbox/run-agent.sh --podman-arg '--dns=8.8.8.8' ./project
   ```

3. **Skip the credential helper entirely** — override it inside the container:

   ```bash
   ./agent-sandbox/run-agent.sh --podman-arg '-e' \
       --podman-arg 'GIT_CONFIG_COUNT=1' \
       --podman-arg '-e' \
       --podman-arg 'GIT_CONFIG_KEY_0=credential.helper' \
       --podman-arg '-e' \
       --podman-arg 'GIT_CONFIG_VALUE_0=' \
       ./project
   ```

## Development

### Building locally

```bash
podman build -t agent-sandbox agent-sandbox/
```

### Running tests

The GitHub Actions workflow builds the image and verifies that the installed
tools work correctly. To run the same checks locally:

```bash
podman build -t agent-sandbox agent-sandbox/
podman run --rm agent-sandbox node --version
podman run --rm agent-sandbox python3 --version
podman run --rm agent-sandbox git --version
podman run --rm agent-sandbox claude --version
podman run --rm agent-sandbox codex --version
```

## License

MIT — see [LICENSE](../LICENSE).

Commit message:

Fix freeze caused by read-only ~/.claude mount in auto-detected OAuth
When auto-detected OAuth was active (no API key, host credentials
found), the entire ~/.claude directory was mounted read-only.  After
the trust prompt, Claude Code tried to write project trust settings,
history, and debug logs — all of which silently failed on the ro
mount, causing the UI to freeze.

Fix: mount the persistent data directory (rw) as the base for
~/.claude, then overlay only the host's .credentials.json file as
read-only.  This gives Claude Code a writable state directory while
still protecting the host's OAuth tokens from modification.

https://claude.ai/code/session_01WkgSnC1pbKj7864LodQe4N

agent-sandbox/README.md, after:

# agent-sandbox

Secure Podman container for running coding agents (Claude Code, OpenAI Codex)
with rootless isolation on Linux.

## Overview

- **Rootless Podman containers** — no daemon, no root, user-namespace isolation
- **Persistent agent state** — config and conversation history survive across
  sessions
- **Minimal attack surface** — capabilities dropped, `no-new-privileges` enforced
- **Network isolation** — full network disable via `--no-network`
- **Multi-agent support** — run Claude Code, OpenAI Codex, or a plain shell

For multi-client isolation, create separate Linux users and run the script as
each user — each gets their own home directory and container state automatically.

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Ubuntu 24.04+ (or any Linux with Podman 4.9+)
- [Podman](https://podman.io/getting-started/installation) 4.9+ (rootless mode)
- An Anthropic API key **or** an existing Claude Code OAuth login

### Build the image

```bash
podman build -t agent-sandbox agent-sandbox/
```

### Run an agent

```bash
# Claude Code with an API key
export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY="sk-ant-..."
./agent-sandbox/run-agent.sh --agent claude ./projects/webapp

# Claude Code with OAuth (share your host login)
./agent-sandbox/run-agent.sh --claude-config ~/.claude ./projects/webapp

# OpenAI Codex
export OPENAI_API_KEY="sk-..."
./agent-sandbox/run-agent.sh --agent codex ./projects/api

# Just a shell for exploration
./agent-sandbox/run-agent.sh --agent shell
```

### Resume a session

```bash
./agent-sandbox/run-agent.sh --resume
```

## Authentication

Claude Code supports two authentication modes inside the container.

### Option 1: API Key

Set `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` in your environment before launching. The key is
passed into the container automatically:

```bash
export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY="sk-ant-..."
./agent-sandbox/run-agent.sh ./project
```

### Option 2: OAuth Login (no API key)

If you have logged into Claude Code on your host machine (`claude login`),
you can share that session with the container using `--claude-config`:

```bash
./agent-sandbox/run-agent.sh --claude-config ~/.claude ./project
```

This bind-mounts your host `~/.claude` directory (which contains
`.credentials.json` and related files) into the container. The host's
`~/.claude.json` is also mounted automatically if present (required for
OAuth session state).

**Auto-detection:** If neither `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` nor `--claude-config`
is set, and `~/.claude/.credentials.json` exists on the host, the script
automatically mounts the credentials file **read-only** into the
container's writable `~/.claude` directory so your OAuth tokens are
available without any extra flags.  The host's `~/.claude.json` is also
mounted read-only if present.

### GitHub CLI & Git Credentials

The script auto-detects and mounts GitHub credentials so that `gh` and
`git` work inside the container without extra configuration.

**Auto-mounted (read-only) when present on the host:**

| Host path | Container path | Purpose |
|-----------|---------------|---------|
| `~/.config/gh/` | `/home/agent/.config/gh/` | `gh` CLI auth tokens (`hosts.yml`) |
| `~/.gitconfig` | `/home/agent/.gitconfig` | Git identity and credential helpers |

**Environment variables (passed through if set):**

- `GH_TOKEN` — GitHub personal access token (used by `gh` CLI)
- `GITHUB_TOKEN` — Alternative GitHub token variable

If your `.gitconfig` uses `gh` as a credential helper
(`credential.helper = !gh auth git-credential`), git operations against
GitHub will authenticate automatically through the mounted `gh` config.

## Persistent Data

Agent state is stored under `~/.local/share/agent-sandbox/`:

```
~/.local/share/agent-sandbox/
├── claude/      # Claude Code config and conversation history
├── config/      # Agent configuration
└── history/     # Shell and command history
```

Only the designated project directory is mounted read-write in the container.

## Security Features

### Container isolation

| Layer | Protection |
|-------|-----------|
| User namespaces | Host UID/GID mapped to container's `agent` user (1000:1000) |
| Capability drop | `--cap-drop=ALL` with minimal re-adds |
| No new privileges | Prevents privilege escalation inside the container |
| Bind mounts | Only project dir (rw) and agent state (rw) are mounted |
| SELinux labels | `:Z` relabeling for proper MAC enforcement |

### Network isolation

Disable networking entirely with `--no-network`:

```bash
./agent-sandbox/run-agent.sh --no-network ./project
```

This passes `--network=none` to Podman, completely preventing the container
from making any network connections.

## run-agent.sh Reference

```
Usage: run-agent.sh [OPTIONS] [project-dir]

Options:
  --agent <name>         Agent to run: claude (default), codex, or shell
  --claude-config <dir>  Mount a Claude config directory into the container
                         (use to share OAuth login from the host)
  --image <image>        Container image (default: agent-sandbox:latest)
  --resume               Reattach to an existing container
  --no-network           Disable all container networking
  --mount <host:cont>    Additional bind mount (read-only)
  --mount-rw <host:cont> Additional bind mount (read-write)
  --podman-arg <arg>     Pass additional argument to podman run
  --help                 Show this help message

Environment variables:
  AGENT_SANDBOX_DATA     Base dir for persistent agent state
                         (default: ~/.local/share/agent-sandbox)
  ANTHROPIC_API_KEY      API key for Claude Code
  OPENAI_API_KEY         API key for OpenAI Codex
  GH_TOKEN               GitHub personal access token (gh CLI)
  GITHUB_TOKEN           GitHub token (alternative to GH_TOKEN)
```

## Troubleshooting

### Claude Code freezes after trusting the folder

Two common causes:

1. **Read-only `~/.claude` mount** — if auto-detected OAuth previously
   mounted the entire `~/.claude` directory read-only, Claude Code could
   not write trust settings, history, or debug logs, causing it to freeze.
   This is now fixed: the script mounts a writable data directory and
   overlays only the credentials file read-only.

2. **Git credential helper blocking on input** — the container
   bind-mounts your host `~/.gitconfig`, which may reference a credential
   helper (e.g. `gh auth git-credential` or a keyring-based helper).
   During initialization Claude Code runs git commands to inspect the
   project; if any of those trigger the credential helper and it tries to
   prompt for input, it hangs because the helper's stdin is a pipe with
   no reader.

The script sets `GIT_TERMINAL_PROMPT=0` and `GH_PROMPT_DISABLED=1` to
force immediate failure instead of blocking.  If you still see a freeze:

1. **Debug interactively** — launch a shell and test git:

   ```bash
   ./agent-sandbox/run-agent.sh --agent shell ./project
   # inside the container:
   git status            # should work instantly
   git ls-remote origin  # may hang if DNS or credentials are broken
   ```

2. **DNS issues** — Ubuntu 24.04 uses `systemd-resolved` on `127.0.0.53`,
   which the container's network namespace cannot reach directly.  Podman
   normally rewrites `/etc/resolv.conf` for the container, but if DNS is
   broken you can force a public resolver:

   ```bash
   ./agent-sandbox/run-agent.sh --podman-arg '--dns=8.8.8.8' ./project
   ```

3. **Skip the credential helper entirely** — override it inside the container:

   ```bash
   ./agent-sandbox/run-agent.sh --podman-arg '-e' \
       --podman-arg 'GIT_CONFIG_COUNT=1' \
       --podman-arg '-e' \
       --podman-arg 'GIT_CONFIG_KEY_0=credential.helper' \
       --podman-arg '-e' \
       --podman-arg 'GIT_CONFIG_VALUE_0=' \
       ./project
   ```

## Development

### Building locally

```bash
podman build -t agent-sandbox agent-sandbox/
```

### Running tests

The GitHub Actions workflow builds the image and verifies that the installed
tools work correctly. To run the same checks locally:

```bash
podman build -t agent-sandbox agent-sandbox/
podman run --rm agent-sandbox node --version
podman run --rm agent-sandbox python3 --version
podman run --rm agent-sandbox git --version
podman run --rm agent-sandbox claude --version
podman run --rm agent-sandbox codex --version
```

## License

MIT — see [LICENSE](../LICENSE).
